# AmeriCancer

  Much has been learned about colorectal cancer risk over the past two decades, and many analyses have focused on both individual level factors that influence cancer survival, including tumor grade at diagnosis, tumor size, and treatment options. The scientific community has also explored the influence of environmental level factors on colorectal cancer risk, including socioeconomic inequalities and racial disparities. Factors such as healthcare access, obesity, physical activity, diet, and chronic conditions (e.g., diabetes mellitus) have been associated with the incidence of colorectal cancer.  In this analysis, we attempt to answer the following question: what are the key risk factors for colorectal cancer deaths in the 100 largest US cities?

  We used data from the City Health Dashboard (<https://www.cityhealthdashboard.com/metrics>), maintained by NYU Langone Health, to analyze count of deaths due to colorectal cancer outcomes from the 100 most populous US cities. Initially, poisson regression models were constructed to understand key risk factors given the count nature of the outcome but, due to overdispersion in the poisson model, we ultimately used the negative binomial regression model. Environmental factors, socioeconomic factors, and clinical care factors were significantly associated with count of colorectal cancer deaths, but individual clinical outcome metrics were not as strongly associated with colorectal cancer deaths. This showed that factors in the literature that were related to incidences of colorectal cancer did not necessarily align with factors that had a significant effect on colorectal cancer deaths at a macro (ie. large cities) level.
